Add Email Templates reference docs. (#3002)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/reference/api/brands/index.md

HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```

## Email template operations

The Email Templates API allows you to programatically manage email customizations.

### Email Templates

Okta provides many customizable **email templates**. For example, the `welcome` email template allows users to activate their account. Each template has **default content** that is translated to any one of the [supported languages](#supported-languages).

### Email Customizations

**Email customizations** allow you to override an email template's default content.

The following constraints apply to email customizations:
- If an email template has any customizations at all, exactly one of them must be the default (where `isDefault` is `true`). The default customization is used when no other customization applies to the user's language settings.
- Each email template can have only one customization for each [supported language](#supported-languages).

### Supported Languages

> Email customizations can be created for the following languages. Language values must be in [BCP 47 language tag](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IETF_language_tag) format.

Reviewer: What if we linked to the eng doc source? In the guides and such, we try to avoid linking to Wikipedia.
```suggestion
Email customizations can be created for the following languages. Language values must be in [BCP 47 language tag](http://www.iana.org/assignments/language-subtag-registry/language-subtag-registry) format.
```

HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```

## Email template operations

> The Email Templates API has the following operations:

Reviewer: I recommend removing this line for a few reasons:
- it's unnecessary
- the Email Templates operations are not an API
- removing it follow the format of many of the other pages

```suggestion
```

* [List email templates](#list-email-templates)
* [Get email template](#get-email-template)
* [Get email template default content](#get-email-template-default-content)
* [Preview email template default content](#preview-email-template-default-content)
* [List email customizations](#list-email-customizations)
* [Create email customization](#create-email-customization)
* [Delete all email customizations](#delete-all-email-customizations)
* [Get email customization](#get-email-customization)
* [Update email customization](#update-email-customization)
* [Delete email customization](#delete-email-customization)
* [Preview email customization](#preview-email-customization)
* [Send test email](#send-test-email)

### List email templates

<ApiOperation method="get" url="/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email" />

Lists all supported email templates.

#### Request path parameters

| Parameter      | Type        | Description            |
| -------------- | ----------- | ---------------------- |
| `brandId`      | String      | ID of a Brand          |

#### Response body

> A [paginated](/docs/reference/core-okta-api/#pagination) list of [Email Template](#email-template) resources.

Reviewer: Not a sentence, so doesn't require a period.
```suggestion
A [paginated](/docs/reference/core-okta-api/#pagination) list of [Email Template](#email-template) resources
```

Passing an invalid `brandId` returns a `404 Not Found` with error code `E0000007`.

> #### Use examples

Reviewer: I know that we use this format elsewhere in the Brands API doc, but I only see it used in one other API reference. I think it's not needed.
```suggestion
```

> The following example returns the list of all supported email templates.

Reviewer: See last comment.
```suggestion
```

                "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email/welcome/customizations"
            },
            "defaultContent": {
                "hints": {
                    "allow": [
                        "GET"
                    ]
                },
                "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email/welcome/default-content"
            },
            "self": {
                "hints": {
                    "allow": [
                        "GET"
                    ]
                },
                "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email/welcome"
            },
            "test": {
                "hints": {
                    "allow": [
                        "POST"
                    ]
                },
                "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email/welcome/test"
            }
        }
    },
    ...
    {
        "name": "ad.welcome",
        "_links": {
          ...
        }
    }
]
```

### Get email template

<ApiOperation method="get" url="/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email/${templateName}" />

> Fetches the email template named `templateName`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fetches the email template named `templateName`
```

'https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email/welcome/default-content/preview'
```

##### Response

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
```

```json
{
    "body": "<!DOCTYPE html><html>...</html>",
    "subject": "Welcome to Okta!",
    "_links": {
        "defaultContent": {
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "GET"
                ]
            },
            "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email/welcome/default-content"
        },
        "self": {
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "GET"
                ]
            },
            "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email/welcome/default-content/preview"
        },
        "template": {
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "GET"
                ]
            },
            "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email/welcome"
        }
    }
}
```

### Send test email

<ApiOperation method="post" url="/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email/${templateName}/test" />

Sends a test email

> The following set of priorities determines the content of the email:

Author: Thanks for your feedback! I agree that some introductory information would be good. Let me attempt to write a bit of prose at the beginning of the section to introduce the basic concepts.

> The following set of priorities determines the content of the email:

Reviewer 2: Thanks for making the change! It's much clearer! 🎉

> The content of the email is determined based on the following priority:

Reviewer: Maybe active voice could help here. I think "priorities" should be pluralized.
```suggestion
The following set of priorities determines the content of the email:
```

1. The email customization for the language specified in the `language` query parameter.
1. The email template's default customization.
1. The email template’s default content, translated to the current user's language.

#### Request path parameters

| Parameter      | Type        | Description               |
| -------------- | ----------- | ------------------------- |
| `brandId`      | String      | ID of a Brand             |
| `templateName` | String      | Name of an Email Template |

#### Request query parameters

| Parameter      | Type        | Description                                                        |
| -------------- | ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `language`     | String      | One of the [supported BCP 47 language codes](#supported-languages) |

#### Response body

Returns a `204 No Content` on success.

Passing an invalid `brandId` or `templateName` returns a `404 Not Found` with error code `E0000007`.

#### Use examples

> The following example sends a test `welcome` email for the `fr` language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example sends a test `welcome` email in French (`fr`).
```

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X POST \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
'https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email/welcome/test?language=fr'
```

##### Response

```http
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```

### List email customizations

<ApiOperation method="get" url="/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email/${templateName}/customizations" />

Lists all customizations for an email template

#### Request path parameters

| Parameter      | Type        | Description               |
| -------------- | ----------- | ------------------------- |
| `brandId`      | String      | ID of a Brand             |
| `templateName` | String      | Name of an Email Template |

#### Response body

> A [paginated](/docs/reference/core-okta-api/#pagination) list of [Email Customization](#email-customization) resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A [paginated](/docs/reference/core-okta-api/#pagination) list of [Email Customization](#email-customization) resources
```

                "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email/welcome/customizations/oel2hr0orNF3xGHpS0g4"
            },
            "template": {
                "hints": {
                    "allow": [
                        "GET"
                    ]
                },
                "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email/welcome"
            },
            "test": {
                "hints": {
                    "allow": [
                        "POST"
                    ]
                },
                "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email/welcome/test"
            }
        },
    },
    ...
]
```

### Create email customization

<ApiOperation method="post" url="/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email/${templateName}/customizations" />

Creates a new email customization

#### Request path parameters

| Parameter      | Type        | Description               |
| -------------- | ----------- | ------------------------- |
| `brandId`      | String      | ID of a Brand             |
| `templateName` | String      | Name of an Email Template |

#### Request body

> The [Email Customization](#email-customization) resource to create.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Email Customization](#email-customization) resource to create
```

#### Response body

The [Email Customization](#email-customization) resource that was created.

> If this is the first customization being created for the email template, `isDefault` will be set to `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this is the first customization being created for the email template, `isDefault` is set to`true`.
```

Returns a `400 Bad Request` if:

> - `language` is not one of the [supported languages](#supported-languages).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `language` is not one of the [supported languages](#supported-languages)
```

> - `body` does not contain a required variable references.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `body` does not contain a required variable references
```

Returns a `409 Conflict` with error code `E0000182` If `isDefault` is `true` and a default customization already exists.

Passing an invalid `brandId` or `templateName` returns a `404 Not Found` with error code `E0000007`.

> > **Note:** See more information about email customization constraints [here](#email-customization-constraints).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** See [email customization constraints](#email-customization-constraints) for more information.
```

#### Use examples

The following example creates an English customization for the `welcome` email template.

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X POST \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
-d '{
  "language": "en",
  "subject": "Welcome to Okta!",
  "body": "<!DOCTYPE html><html>...${activationToken}...</html>",
  "isDefault": true
}' \
'https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email/welcome/customizations'
```

##### Response

```http
HTTP/1.1 201 Created
```

```json
{

> 		"body": "<!DOCTYPE html><html>...${activationToken}...</html>",

Reviewer 3: just a small nit about too much spacing here :)

        },
        "test": {
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "POST"
                ]
            },
            "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email/welcome/test"
        }
    }
}
```

### Update email customization

<ApiOperation method="put" url="/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email/${templateName}/customizations/${customizationId}" />

Updates an email customization

#### Request path parameters

| Parameter         | Type        | Description                  |
| ----------------- | ----------- | ---------------------------- |
| `brandId`         | String      | ID of a Brand                |
| `templateName`    | String      | Name of an Email Template    |
| `customizationId` | String      | ID of an Email Customization |

#### Request body

The [Email Customization](#email-customization) resource to update.

#### Response body

The [Email Customization](#email-customization) resource that was updated.

If `isDefault` is `true`, the previous default email customization will have its `isDefault` set to `false`.

Returns a `409 Conflict` if:

> - there is already another email customization for the specified `language`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- there is already another email customization for the specified `language`
```

> - `isDefault` is `false` and the email customization being updated is the default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `isDefault` is `false` and the email customization being updated is the default
```

Returns a `400 Bad Request` if:

> - `language` is not one of the [supported locales](#supported-locales).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `language` is not one of the [supported locales](#supported-locales)
```

> - `body` does not contain a required variable references.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `body` does not contain a required variable references
```

Passing an invalid `brandId`, `templateName`, or `customizationId` returns a `404 Not Found` with error code `E0000007`.

> > **Note:** See more information about email customization constraints [here](#email-customization-constraints).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** See [email customization constraints](#email-customization-constraints) for more information.
```

#### Use examples

The following example updates a customization for the `welcome` email template.

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X PUT \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
-d '{
  "language": "en",
  "subject": "Hello from Okta!",
  "body": "<!DOCTYPE html><html>...${activationToken}...</html>",
  "isDefault": true
}' \
'https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email/welcome/customizations/${customizationId}'
```

##### Response

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
```

```json
{

> 		"body": "<!DOCTYPE html><html>...${activationToken}...</html>",

Reviewer 3: too much spacing here as well :)

Author: Thanks. Yeah I noticed these after I did the Netlify deploy. Not sure how I managed to do that. :)

            "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email/welcome"
        },
        "test": {
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "POST"
                ]
            },
            "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email/welcome/test"
        }
    }
}
```

### Delete email customization

<ApiOperation method="delete" url="/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email/${templateName}/customizations/${customizationId}" />

Deletes an email customization

#### Request path parameters

| Parameter         | Type        | Description                  |
| ----------------- | ----------- | ---------------------------- |
| `brandId`         | String      | ID of a Brand                |
| `templateName`    | String      | Name of an Email Template    |
| `customizationId` | String      | ID of an Email Customization |

#### Response body

Returns a `204 No Content` on success.

Returns a `409 Conflict` if the email customization to be deleted is the default.

Passing an invalid `brandId`, `templateName`, or `customizationId` returns a `404 Not Found` with error code `E0000007`.

> > **Note:** See more information about email customization constraints [here](#email-customization-constraints).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** See [email customization constraints](#email-customization-constraints) for more information.
```

HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```

## Email template operations

> The Email Templates API allows you to programatically manage email customizations.

Reviewer: So we're okay with calling this a separate API?

Author: I just followed the prevailing convention in the doc - e.g., Themes API.

### Email Templates

> Okta provides many customizable **email templates** - e.g., the `welcome` email allows users to activate their account. Okta provides **default content** for each of these email templates that is automatically translated to any one of the [supported languages](#supported-languages).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Okta provides many customizable **email templates**. For example, the `welcome` email template allows users to activate their account.

Each template has **default content** that is translated to any one of the [supported languages](#supported-languages). 
```

### Email Customizations

**Email customizations** allow you to override an email template's default content.

The following constraints apply to email customizations:
- If an email template has any customizations at all, exactly one of them must be the default (where `isDefault` is `true`). The default customization is used when no other customization applies to the user's language settings.

> - Each email template can have at most one customization for each [supported language](#supported-languages).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Each email template can have only one customization for each [supported language](#supported-languages).
```

            }
        },
    },
    ...
]
```

### Create email customization

<ApiOperation method="post" url="/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email/${templateName}/customizations" />

Creates a new email customization

#### Request path parameters

| Parameter      | Type        | Description               |
| -------------- | ----------- | ------------------------- |
| `brandId`      | String      | ID of a Brand             |
| `templateName` | String      | Name of an Email Template |

#### Request body

The [Email Customization](#email-customization) resource to create.

#### Response body

The [Email Customization](#email-customization) resource that was created.

If this is the first customization being created for the email template, `isDefault` is set to `true`.

Returns a `400 Bad Request` if:
- `language` is not one of the [supported languages](#supported-languages).
- `body` does not contain a required variable references.

Returns a `409 Conflict` with error code `E0000182` If `isDefault` is `true` and a default customization already exists.

Passing an invalid `brandId` or `templateName` returns a `404 Not Found` with error code `E0000007`.

> > **Note:** See [Email Customizations](#email-customizations) for more information about the constraints surrounding email customizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** See [Email Customizations](#email-customizations) for details about email customization constraints.
```

Updates an email customization

#### Request path parameters

| Parameter         | Type        | Description                  |
| ----------------- | ----------- | ---------------------------- |
| `brandId`         | String      | ID of a Brand                |
| `templateName`    | String      | Name of an Email Template    |
| `customizationId` | String      | ID of an Email Customization |

#### Request body

The [Email Customization](#email-customization) resource to update.

#### Response body

The [Email Customization](#email-customization) resource that was updated.

If `isDefault` is `true`, the previous default email customization will have its `isDefault` set to `false`.

Returns a `409 Conflict` if:
- there is already another email customization for the specified `language`.
- `isDefault` is `false` and the email customization being updated is the default.

Returns a `400 Bad Request` if:
- `language` is not one of the [supported locales](#supported-locales).
- `body` does not contain a required variable references.

Passing an invalid `brandId`, `templateName`, or `customizationId` returns a `404 Not Found` with error code `E0000007`.

> > **Note:** See [Email Customizations](#email-customizations) for more information about the constraints surrounding email customizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** See [Email Customizations](#email-customizations) for details about email customization constraints.
```

            "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email/welcome"
        },
        "test": {
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "POST"
                ]
            },
            "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email/welcome/test"
        }
    }
}
```

### Delete email customization

<ApiOperation method="delete" url="/api/v1/brands/${brandId}/templates/email/${templateName}/customizations/${customizationId}" />

Deletes an email customization

#### Request path parameters

| Parameter         | Type        | Description                  |
| ----------------- | ----------- | ---------------------------- |
| `brandId`         | String      | ID of a Brand                |
| `templateName`    | String      | Name of an Email Template    |
| `customizationId` | String      | ID of an Email Customization |

#### Response body

Returns a `204 No Content` on success.

Returns a `409 Conflict` if the email customization to be deleted is the default.

Passing an invalid `brandId`, `templateName`, or `customizationId` returns a `404 Not Found` with error code `E0000007`.

> > **Note:** See [Email Customizations](#email-customizations) for more information about the constraints surrounding email customizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** See [Email Customizations](#email-customizations) for details about email customization constraints.
```

| `subject`      | String                  | The subject of the email       |
| `body`         | String                  | The body of the email          |
| `_links`       | [Links](#links-object)  | Link relations for this object |

### Email Customization

The Email Customization resource defines the following properties:

| Property       | Type                    | Description                                 |
| ---------------| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| `id`           | String                  | The ID of the customization                 |
| `language`     | String                  | The language supported by the customization |
| `isDefault`    | boolean                 | Whether the customization is the default    |
| `subject`      | String                  | The subject of the customization            |
| `body`         | String                  | The body of the customization               |
| `_links`       | [Links](#links-object)  | Link relations for this object              |

#### Email Customization Constraints

The following constraints apply to email customizations:

> 1. If an email template has customizations, exactly one of them must be the default (where `isDefault` is `true`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If an email template has customizations, exactly one of them must be the default (where `isDefault` is `true`).
```

> 1. Each email template can have at most one customization for each [supported language](#supported-languages).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Each email template can have at most one customization for each [supported language](#supported-languages).
```

### Supported Languages

> Email customizations can be created for the following languages. Languages must be specified as [BCP 47 language tags](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IETF_language_tag).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Email customizations can be created for the following languages. Language values must be in [BCP 47 language tag](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IETF_language_tag) format.
```
